[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
I can't tell you
how many people I come
across who, at any age,
do not understand what
their purpose in life is.
This causes a deep
kind of despair
and sends one searching for
their own version of the Holy
Grail, or they sink into
depression and apathy.
Simon Chokoisky has
found his unique path
after discovering some profound
Vedic wisdoms, which led him
to mastering Sanskrit
and authoring
books on using Vedic
typology to discover
our true purpose in life.
Today he's there to talk
about the five dharma types,
and we've been having a lot of
fun in the makeup room talking
about this with the makeup
artists, and some of which
we'll get into because this
is highly nuanced information.
You can only do so much
in your book, which is
beautifully done, by the way.
>>SIMON CHOKOISKY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: But we'll even
take it a little bit
beyond just as a tease so people
can start seeing themselves
in the story.
>>CHOKOISKY: Well,
that's the thing.
Dharma types are everywhere,
and they don't exist--
they're not just in a book.
They're in everyday life,
like the laws-- like gravity.
You know it's there, but you
can't put your finger on it,
and it affects you
every day of your life.
So knowing your
archetype, knowing
who you are at
your core can help
affect-- can help you steer
your destiny and find happiness.
>>REGINA: Yes, now
what about you?
Now, you started out in a
completely different area
of life, and I want to talk
about have you-- share with us
so we get to know you, but where
you were, where you are now.
Were you living your
truth in the past or not?
>>CHOKOISKY: In some way, yes,
but I used to work in fitness.
I've been in sales,
but looking back,
the things that-- I've always
been an educator, and even as
a fitness consultant,
my focus was
to teach people, to show them
how to do a proper exercise.
Even when I was
selling timeshare--
I was a horrible
timeshare salesperson--
I would counsel the person.
>>REGINA: You would
try to educate them--
>>CHOKOISKY: I would
try to educate them.
>>REGINA: --rather
than sell, sell, sell.
>>CHOKOISKY: And here were my
merchant friends and coworkers
just selling away and
doing a great job,
and I was having this deep,
profound counseling session
with my client, because
as educators, we're
fundamentally counselors.
We're here to convey
information and be diplomats.
>>REGINA: That makes sense.
Once upon a time,
a long, long time
ago, I, too, was in
the capacity to sell,
and I was supposed to
be selling jewelry.
And what I was doing was
talking people out of things
that I really thought I
would try to educate them
as to which might
be more flattering,
and is that within their budget?
I lost my job in no time.
>>CHOKOISKY: I'm sure it drove
your boss crazy as it did mine.
>>REGINA: It did.
It did.
So now what happened
that allowed you to go
so deeply into these studies?
You have multiple
languages you speak.
You speak Sanskrit.
You read Sanskrit.
So you were able to,
in a very refined way,
put this information
together, right?
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Well, Sanskrit is
a very deep well,
and I think I've just
only skimmed the surface,
so I just want to set
that record straight.
And I've always had
this search for truth,
because as I write in the book,
you can be one dharma type,
but you go through
different life cycles.
So for example, it's
like being born American,
but you go travel
through Greece,
you travel through Italy,
and your American-ness
expresses differently
in different phases
of your life in different
places that you go.
So I was in a huge
outsider period,
and when you, or anyone,
is in an outsider period,
you're searching.
You're questing.
You're on the
periphery of society,
and unless you have
something particularly
valuable like the newest
internet money making scheme
or something out of the box
that can make money for society,
typically you're on the outside.
You're not welcome.
You're not part of it.
So this took a lot of research.
It took eight years to write
the book, but what I've found
is that every culture from
the Hawaiians, the Polynesian,
to the northern Europe, to India
has a version of these types,
and I've tried to
convey that in the book.
>>REGINA: So is
this original work
where you've taken all these
different characteristics
and overlaid them
to create this?
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, I guess
it's original in the sense
that I've compiled
information, but it's not mine.
This doesn't belong
to me, and that's
the key to the outsider--
is, as an outsider,
you have to blend
different things
and pull from different
areas of life.
So you have Tae Bo.
Someone took-- this
is an old example.
I should use a different
one-- Thai boxing and boxing,
or fusion cuisine.
There's a chef out there
who was an outsider chef,
and he or she said, man, I love
sushi, but I also love steak.
Why can't we put them together?
That's what the outsider does.
They're able to blend things
that no one else thought
of blending before.
Hot yoga.
And it's a multi-billion
dollar industry.
>>REGINA: Well, they're often
the ones who are the risk taker
innovators in society.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, you
have a lot to lose,
but also if that's your
dharma, if that's who you are,
then that's the only
thing you can do.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
>>CHOKOISKY: So it seems
like a risk to someone else,
but to an outsider it's not.
>>REGINA: But it's not really.
We were playing a
little bit with it
on a personal level in the back,
and you were doing my birth
date, and it looked
like one thing,
but when I did the self
test, that all of you
can do online-- when
I did the self test,
I came out more as an
outsider or educator,
and I relate most
strongly to the outsider.
Now, you said that's because
I'm in a very long outsider
cycle of life.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
>>REGINA: And so when we're
doing these self tests
like that, I say I don't
feel like a warrior, which
my birth date would indicate.
Explain how that works.
>>CHOKOISKY: Well, I was
just having this conversation
on the way over here
with the driver--
is that we invented
astrology so that we
can make economics
and weather prediction
reputable in the sense that
it's difficult to predict
using astrology, and
it's just as difficult
to predict economics.
Anyway that's a--
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's a
silly joke, but the point
is that you have
to take the test,
and it's a free
test in the book.
The test is on the site, and
you'll come up with two types.
You came up with outsider
and one is educator.
One type will reflect
your core dharma
type, who you are genetically,
and that doesn't change.
What changes is the
period that you're in,
and so you, Regina, are in an
outsider life cycle, outsider
period.
>>REGINA: For already 13 years.
>>CHOKOISKY: Since 2002.
And beginning in that
period, your consciousness
begins expanding.
You start taking alternative
ways of researching,
of seeing the world.
Your gift is different.
The 9 to 5 no longer
works for you.
>>REGINA: Yeah, never did.
I was very poor at that.
Not a good person for that.
So we need to know that
when we're reading this,
and how can one
determine the actual--
we're jumping
ahead of ourselves,
but how can one determine the
cycle of life they're in so
when they do finally
take this test they
see what's influencing them?
>>CHOKOISKY: There are
exercises in the book.
There are homework
assignments, and when you read,
there is a chapter
for each dharma type.
And really you should
read about each one,
because I guarantee you
there's someone in your family
who is each type, and
in fact, Hollywood
knows this very well because
the best shows in Hollywood
feature each one of
the dharma types.
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>CHOKOISKY: Now, I'm sure
they're not consciously--
>>REGINA: They don't it
consciously, but yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: Exactly.
So take "Friends."
We have Ross is the educator.
We have Joey is the Warrior.
Chandler is the
merchant, and so on.
Each one of the dharma
types are represented,
and then when we watch, we
go, oh yeah, I get that guy.
I get that girl, because
we are one of those types.
So to have a successful show--
>>REGINA: Everything
is reflected.
>>CHOKOISKY: You have to speak
to each of the dharma types
to understand and
cohere your family
you should understand
each of the dharma types,
because one of your
kids may be a laborer,
one may be a merchant.
So you will discipline
this one differently
than you will
discipline this one.
>>REGINA: Very important.
>>CHOKOISKY: You'll incentivize
the merchant with things,
with gifts, with incentives.
The warrior is
incentivized with praise.
You don't punish the warrior,
because they'll fight back.
>>REGINA: And then the
laborer needs love.
>>CHOKOISKY: And the
laborer needs love,
and they need you to show
that you are the boss.
Bruce Springsteen
is a laborer type.
His name is The
Boss, and laborers
are extremely hard working.
They're loyal.
They're down to earth.
Oprah Winfrey is
another laborer.
They love to create
community, but communities
created around a central
figure, and if you're a parent
and your child is a laborer,
you have to be that boss,
and they will
respect you for that.
>>REGINA: You need the societal
structure, so to speak,
the familial structure.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes.
And structure, rules--
chores are done at this time.
This is done at that time.
Whereas for the outsider,
that will not work.
If you tell the outsider
5:00 PM you got to do this.
6:00 PM you got to do that.
7:00 PM-- they'll resent
you, and they'll run away.
The laborer appreciates it.
The outsider rebels against it.
So you have to understand
how to work with it.
>>REGINA: What a beautiful
system of insight
to family harmony.
>>CHOKOISKY: And it's easy.
It's not rocket science.
>>REGINA: No, no.
It's not.
It's really beautiful.
>>CHOKOISKY: Because these
archetypes are in us.
Walt Disney, when he draws
a hero or a heroine--
doesn't matter if
you're male or female.
There's that strong square jaw.
The shoulders wide.
>>REGINA: Gaston.
>>CHOKOISKY: Gaston.
Everyone says Gaston.
I have to watch that.
>>REGINA: He's such a beast.
>>CHOKOISKY: I think
of Superman or Batman,
but they all have the strong
jaw, the square shoulders.
And earlier we were talking
about even recognizing
certain facial and body features
that identify you or identify
tendencies in you.
>>REGINA: I would like
to put those features in.
As we start going through
each of the types,
please-- I wasn't going
to ask you about that,
but I'd like you to add
some of those features
in so we can literally
see ourselves in it.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, why not.
>>REGINA: Now, you were also--
this is kind of off course
a little bit, but you were also
teaching medical astrology.
Let's talk about that for a
moment and how all of this
built in to what
you're doing now.
>>CHOKOISKY: Well,
astrology-- they say that--
>>REGINA: Was this
Vedic astrology?
>>CHOKOISKY: This
is Vedic astrology,
but Vedic and Western
astrology are two parts
of the same continuum.
They're very similar, and
we share the same planet,
same signs, and different
in certain ways,
but the goal is to give
insight into-- let's
say you're having an ailment.
Using Vedic astrology, we can
see what the karma associated
with that ailment is and the
timing, when we can expect
it to run its
course, and also some
of the more subtle influences.
For example, some people have
migraines, and there's no cure.
They don't know how
to get rid of him.
In the chart, we
can see maybe this
is caused by a certain
planetary position,
and now we can do
something about it.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>CHOKOISKY: So there
are alternative, I guess,
healing methods that present
themselves once we look
at the horoscope of a person.
>>REGINA: Is that something
that most Vedic or Arya Vedic
practitioners would
be able to address,
or you're putting so many
different kind of modalities
over each other within it.
Are you unique in that
way being able to say
let's look at your
astrology for this migraine
and see how we can handle it.
>>CHOKOISKY: This is not unique.
It is unique in our culture,
but ancient cultures
taught the ability to
hold different thoughts
and to work with different
systems simultaneously.
For example, in Ayurveda, we
have three mind body types,
vata, pitta, and kapha.
>>REGINA: That's
my next question.
Let's go there.
>>CHOKOISKY: Let's go there.
And to understand
your body type is
to understand the dharma,
the purpose, the natural laws
of your body, because your body
is different from person X, Y,
and Z. So when you
take an aspirin,
it works slightly
differently for you
than it does for
these other people,
and to take this a
little bit further,
and I hope this isn't going
too far out on a limb here,
but there are things you can
do-- like eating hot spicy
food if you're a hot type-- that
will take you over the edge.
I noticed watching the
Super Bowl a couple of days
ago Katy Perry wearing the
nose ring on her right side.
I also noticed a
couple of the employees
here are doing the same thing.
The nose piercing
on the right nostril
will open up your heat
in your masculine center.
So if you're a woman
with this piercing,
it will get you in touch
with your masculine energy.
It'll make you more
assertive, more powerful.
Look at me, world.
I'm here.
And more of a boyish
energy, whereas
having the piercing
on the left nostril--
>>REGINA: Which is more
classic in India, for example.
>>CHOKOISKY: Which is the
traditional Indian form,
is opening up your female
energy, and as a result,
helping you to become more
of a lady, so to speak,
or to be the woman--
>>REGINA: More nurturing,
a mother, and so forth.
>>CHOKOISKY:
Correct, and to open
up the reproductive
channels, as well.
So there are ways
to balance each one.
In the West, women naturally
gravitate to the right,
because there's a competitive
masculine sort of push.
>>REGINA: I've noticed that.
In fact, when our makeup artist,
and you, and others-- and we
were talking about others.
I started thinking
and reflecting on it,
and most of the women I
know seem to have their nose
rings on the right side.
>>CHOKOISKY: And the personality
qualities associated with that
will come out.
We're all individual
people, but that hot energy
will want to come out.
>>REGINA: So Pitta.
>>CHOKOISKY: Pitta, yeah.
And there are ways
to balance that.
So if you feel like you're
becoming too aggressive,
too sort of alienating your
feminine nature, take it out.
Put it in the left one
for a month or two.
See what happens.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So what about-- say if
you're very heavily balanced
toward kapha energy.
Let's go through
the doshas first
and talk about their
characteristics,
and then I'll ask
you that question.
>>CHOKOISKY: So there are
three basic mind body types,
and my book doesn't
deal with this.
This is straight up Ayurveda.
These three basic
mind body types
are vata, which is
the-- in bodybuilding--
I told you I used
to be in fitness--
we call it the ectomorph type.
Skinny, puts on weight
with difficulty--
those are the
physical qualities.
>>REGINA: Often tall,
and long limbs, drier.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
Dry skin.
Right.
And in what the Vedic
tradition has also
associated with that is
psychological characteristics.
They are more fearful.
They are quick talkers.
They have more anxiety
than the other types.
The mesomorph is the middle.
That's the pitta type,
and they are primarily
ruled by the fire
element, and so
typically two pittas in
a relationship-- they
really have to learn
to give because they're
both the leader, so too
many cooks in the kitchen.
So just knowing your body type
can help you understand even
relationship dynamics.
If I'm a pitta and I
always want to be right,
then I have to look at what
my spouse or significant other
is so that we can balance that.
And there's a saying that
says treat vata like a flower.
Nurture them.
Water them.
Give them a certain warm
nourishing kinds of foods.
Treat pitta like a spouse.
Always say, yes, honey.
>>REGINA: Yes, honey.
So for someone who is
a pitta like yourself
and myself, as well,
the best answer
is, yes, you are right, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
That's a very good answer.
>>CHOKOISKY: And finally
there is the kapha,
and the kaphas are
the endomorphs,
and we don't use this
terminology so much in the west
anymore, but it's more
from fitness circles.
Endomorphs are the
big boned types,
and they tend to be more steady.
>>REGINA: Softer, rounder.
>>CHOKOISKY: Softer,
rounder, more relaxed.
Much more difficult to
take off weight for them,
and kaphas you
treat like an enemy.
Come on.
Five more pushups.
>>REGINA: Oh, push.
>>CHOKOISKY: You
want to kick them.
Push.
Push a little more, because if
you don't, they won't budge.
And here's the
interesting thing--
is if I'm a fitness
consultant and I
have vata, a pitta, and
a kapha, the kapha I'm
going to go and
kick a couple times,
and they won't
respect me until I do
because they know I'm on them.
>>REGINA: So this is
more the laborer in terms
if you're going to look
at personality types, some
of that characteristic there.
>>CHOKOISKY: Right.
Well very good.
Now the thing-- I try to
keep Ayurveda at Ayurveda--
>>REGINA: I understand you
can't make a literal-- yes.
>>CHOKOISKY: --and the Dharma
types-- we all want the unified
field theory where we can blend
everything-- Chinese medicine,
Western medicine, Ayurveda,
Native American healing
medicine, and so on, but to
gain the respect of each body
type, the kapha I want
to push, but the vata I
want to treat very gently
and with a very soft hand.
And the pitta-- I want them
to see their own truth.
Pittas are very visual.
Fire, light-- without fire
and light, we can't see.
The fire element rules pitta.
So if pitta says two and two
is five, it's definitely five.
I know it, and you're wrong.
You don't say, no, you're wrong.
You say, oh, you're
probably right.
Let's take a look at the
book just to make sure.
You open the book, and
they go, oh, it's four.
Yeah, it's definitely
four, and then they're
convinced it's four.
>>REGINA: That's kind of an
out of balance pitta, but yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's good to use
extremes to get the point.
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>>CHOKOISKY: But pitta
needs to see the true.
So as a pitta interviewer
or a pitta therapist,
let's say-- let's say I'm a
pitta and I go to a therapist.
I want them to prove
themselves to me.
If they can show me that
they know what they're doing,
I'm loyal for life.
If they can't, I'm out of there.
So that's how you
deal with pittas.
You show them your
integrity and that you
know what you're talking about.
>>REGINA: Whereas with a
kapha, you need to what?
Just express yourself
and take control?
>>CHOKOISKY: If a
kapha comes to you,
it's usually because
a doctor has-- let's
say it's the therapist setting.
A doctor has told them
that if they don't go
they're going to
die in six months.
>>REGINA: Otherwise
they're not budging.
>>CHOKOISKY: They're
not budging or they
have a coupon that
expired three years ago,
and they're coming
into your office,
and there are ice cream stains
on the shirt that may or may
not have been washed
recently, and they're there
for their free session.
>>REGINA: Because it's
hard to move when you're--
>>CHOKOISKY: It's
hard to motivate.
>>REGINA: Hard, yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: And if you
don't take action immediately
with them, you won't
see them again.
Of course, I'm speaking
in superlatives.
>>REGINA: You have to grab
them, take control immediately.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes, and show them
how good it feels to exercise,
to move, to change.
So you give them a
herb that heats them.
You get them on the
treadmill doing something,
and they start sweating.
You see how good that feels?
Yeah, this kind of
feels pretty good.
Then they'll respect you.
>>REGINA: And then vata.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
then vata you will
begin by affirming
that it's OK for them
to be and feel
the way they feel.
You will nourish-- the
room can't be too cold.
Vatas get very cold very easy.
You will give them
lots of water.
You will hydrate them,
and you will give them--
vatas love features.
They love-- when a vata buys,
they don't buy the book itself.
They may buy-- oh, wow, with
the book I get this, and this,
and there's a cool test here.
Oh, and there's
some illustrations.
OK, I'll get the book.
They buy the--
>>REGINA: Kind of
ancillary features.
>>CHOKOISKY: The
>>REGINA: The things
that excite them, yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: So for
a vata, you want
to build up-- if they're
your client, you want to say,
listen.
We're going to use herbs.
We're going to use
diet and exercise.
this, and we're
going to use this
incredible complimentary
approach to help you bloom.
And then they go,
wow, this is cool.
There's variety.
There's excitement.
Vatas love variety,
because it's hard for them
to stick to the same old boring
diet, the same old boring
thing.
And you're going to
tell them, listen,
you can eat whatever you want.
Just do this, this, this.
They love that.
>>REGINA: This is
really good information.
Again, whether it's
business, whether it's
working with our
colleagues, or whatnot,
if we really stopped and
considered this for a moment
before we just start
mouthing off to each other.
>>CHOKOISKY: Both in our
family, with our clients,
in our businesses, and this
is already being taught.
It's out there at
the elite levels.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's wonderful.
Now we're going to
go into-- I want
to ask one question before we
go into the actual typology,
and that is the word
dharma, which you've
used several times already,
and what does dharma mean in
your language, so to speak?
Because we use that in a lot
of different ways-- and karma,
and how do the two interface?
>>CHOKOISKY: If you know
dharma, dharma erases karma.
That's a little shorthanded.
A long time ago our wise elders
figured out three things.
The first thing is
everybody wants to be happy,
but there's a difference
between long term happiness
and short term happiness.
To be happy in the
long term you have
to go with nature rather
than against nature.
So in the short term, jumping
off a cliff might feel amazing.
Oh, the wind in your
face, and then splat.
Nature catches up to us.
The same thing
applies to yourself.
So for long term
success, we have
to abide by the laws of nature.
The third thing they
realize is each one
of us has an individual way
of abiding by these laws,
and I term these dharma types.
They use a different
Sanskrit word for it.
So knowing your dharma
type, you understand how
to follow nature to be happy.
So just as we gave the example
earlier for the outsider child,
they're going to want to rebel.
That's their nature.
Let them.
The laborer is going to want
to do things differently.
Allow them to express
themselves that way.
And basically there are five
dharma types like the five
fingers in the hand.
No one finger is
better than another.
You cut one off.
You're going to suffer.
Same thing.
There's no hierarchy.
There's no one above the others.
They're all equal.
>>REGINA: That's true, but
when you start reading them
and you just look
at that, most people
would probably say, oh god,
I hope I'm not a laborer.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's amazing--
>>REGINA: As you said,
Oprah Winfrey is a laborer.
She's not doing too
badly with that.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, she's not
doing too badly with that.
To be a laborer simply
means that your dharma
is to create a community.
Your dharma is to nourish
people because you're solid.
Laborers come into this world
more ready than any other type.
They're solid.
That's why often laborers
work in the health industry
as nurses, doctors, EMTs,
because they know how to look
at suffering and say it's OK.
We're going to
take care of this.
An educator is not that stable.
You come to me with that,
and I'll refer you somewhere.
I'll give you words
of wisdom, but
for the actual
physical sustenance,
I probably can't do it.
>>REGINA: So shall we
start with the laborer.
>>CHOKOISKY: Why not?
>>REGINA: Is that OK?
And start diving
in, because as soon
as you say that, I'm already
seeing- my sister is a nurse.
My mother was a nurse, and I see
their friends who are nurses.
A lot of them have a lot
of kapha-- some pitta,
but kapha characteristics.
Not a lot of vata.
>>CHOKOISKY: You're very
astute, because each dharma type
is associated with an element,
and for the laborer, the earth
element.
And the earth element
is what makes you solid,
and dependable, and loyal.
These are all things that are
very important to laborers,
but it also makes it a
little more difficult
to have that glamorized ideal
Hollywood body, for example.
And laborers struggle with
that if they hitch on to that,
like I have to look this way,
but the earth element also
is Mother Earth.
Whether you're male or
female, it doesn't matter.
You are a source of nurturing.
Just a couple of days
ago I ran across a book
called "The Five
Love Languages,"
and it's the dharma types.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>CHOKOISKY: These
things exist in us,
and this reverend counselor
tapped into this idea
that the five different
types of people
respond to different
types of communication,
and for the laborer, if
your spouse is a laborer,
they may not tell you,
oh honey, I love you.
You look so beautiful.
I got you these rings.
No, they won't do it that way,
but they will fix the car.
They will wash the dishes.
They will take care of
what needs to be done,
and that's how
they express love.
So if you know that that's
them, don't constantly
pester them to tell
you, oh, all the time
how beautiful you look,
because they express
love in a different way.
>>REGINA: I also
noticed that the people
I know who would
just at face value
seem to fall into that
category-- very thorough.
People that follow
through on their word,
they're very thorough,
but also when
I come in with my whirlwind
of energy and 1,000 new ideas
it's an affront.
It's an attack, and it's
very difficult for them
to deal with that kind of energy
when I'm just high as a kit
and can't wait to share.
>>CHOKOISKY: Well, they
bring it down to earth,
but you being a fire element,
you stimulate their ideas.
So even though they may not
show it, it's good for them
to some degree.
>>REGINA: But the sensitivity
has to run both ways.
>>CHOKOISKY: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I need to be
more sensitive to this
is a person that takes in
information perhaps more
methodically.
Very smart.
Very ready and willing
when their moment
comes to take action and
follow through, right?
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct, and
there's some telltale even
physical characteristics
to determine--
>>REGINA: The laborer?
>>CHOKOISKY: The laborer.
Warriors have large
hands typically.
Not always.
Laborers may have thing lips.
May have.
This is not
absolutely necessary,
but a person with thin
lips is thin lipped.
They don't express.
They're not like people
with larger lips who
want to express.
Here, let's talk.
Let's have a conversation.
No, they speak
with their actions.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's a good
thing to note in a family.
>>CHOKOISKY: So even
when you're at home,
look at the people
in your family.
Who has the thin lips?
Who has the large lips?
The large lips will want to--
>>REGINA: Are flapping more.
>>CHOKOISKY: They're
flapping more.
They're made to do that,
especially if the upper lip
is more well developed.
Then you have a talker.
Narendra Modi, the
Prime Minister of India,
has a very pronounced upper lip.
He's an incredible orator.
A pronounced lower lip will
be able to keep secrets
and has a deep sensual
nature, lower lips,
which is why women--
maybe some men,
as well-- get that
collagen implant to give
more of that sensual quality.
It's a thing.
It is a thing,
believe it or not.
>>REGINA: So if your bottom
lip has more fullness--
>>CHOKOISKY: You're
more sensual.
>>REGINA: --you're more sensual.
And so it's kind of
unfair to say in the sense
that some people have
thin lips, but is it true
that generally if
you have thin lips
you're not quite as sensual.
That's not your first
calling, so to speak, in life.
>>CHOKOISKY:
Sensually expressive.
It doesn't have anything
to do with sex drive or--
>>REGINA: Or sensually
experiencing life, even.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
Sensually experiencing
and the ability
to express yourself that way.
As I said, the laborer and
a person with thin lips--
we're going everywhere here.
>>REGINA: But let's do.
I would like to.
>>CHOKOISKY: They express
through acts of service.
They express through
being of service,
whereas someone
with more full lips
and, say, an outsider who
is very much into touch,
they appreciate touch.
They will need to have
affirmation through touch.
Honey, come here.
Let's hug.
Let's kiss.
>>REGINA: With the larger lips.
>>CHOKOISKY: Larger lips,
and also outsider types
tend to go that route.
>>REGINA: So now with laborers
let's get into a little more
of just anymore indicators
of physical typology
for a laborer.
>>CHOKOISKY: For a laborer.
Laborers physically,
because the earth element
is strong in them, may have
stronger bone structure,
wider hips for
childbearing, because they
are centered on family.
And typically laborers
will want to have a family
and to have more children.
In yoga philosophy, there
are 10 commandments.
There are 10 ethical precepts
called the Yamas-- Y-A-M-A--
and then the
Niyamas-- N-I-Y-A-M-A.
And these are basically the
ten commandments of yoga
philosophy, and the first
five are the most important.
The one specific to the
laborer is called Brahmacharya,
which means abstinence,
but it really
means conserving your
sexual energy just
for your relationship, not
fooling around too much.
So laborers naturally,
when they're younger,
want to marry younger.
They want to have
a family younger.
>>REGINA: They're loyal.
>>CHOKOISKY: They're loyal.
They want to create
that structure,
whereas the outsider, or
the educator, or the warrior
might go, no.
I have a career.
I've got other things I want
to do before I go that route,
but it's different strokes
for different folks.
>>REGINA: Each of these types
has an evolutionary path
and a devolutionary path,
and I think that's important
that we just touch on.
>>CHOKOISKY: Sure.
>>REGINA: What helps the
evolution of a laborer
and what takes them down.
>>CHOKOISKY: So
for a laborer, it's
very good to hang around with
merchants, merchant types,
as described in the book.
>>REGINA: We'll go
to them next, then.
>>CHOKOISKY: Merchants are
ruled by the water element.
When you combine
earth and water,
you get civilization,
because-- think about it--
earth and water
creates crops, farming.
Earth and water creates clay,
and you can build vessels.
You can build houses.
The combination
of earth and water
creates civilization,
and money, and society.
So the earth by itself
is dry and rough.
The water smooths it out.
The water by itself
kind of flows
anywhere, but when it
has an earth channel--
>>REGINA: To contain it.
>>CHOKOISKY: --it
contains it and guides it.
So merchants and
laborers need each other.
>>REGINA: So maybe
what we best do
is go through each
of the types, then
I can ask you about where each
one goes to, evolve or devolve,
so then that way when
you're saying merchant,
everyone knows
exactly what you mean.
So let's talk
about the merchant.
So the merchant is
like the water element.
They are the most-- you
can't taste anything
if you don't have water,
moisture in your mouth.
If you dry up your tongue
and you put some sugar there,
you won't know whether
it's sugar or sand.
So we need water,
the water element,
to feel good, to taste
life's juiciness,
and merchants make life
fun and worth living.
A laborer may build a house.
A merchant will deck it out
and make it look fabulous
so it's comfortable.
So some of the best known
personalities in the world
are merchant types
because merchants are fun.
They're Elvis Presley.
We have Marilyn Monroe, Muhammad
Ali, Frank Sinatra-- merchant
types.
And merchants are very social,
but that sociability hides
a core emptiness inside,
and fundamentally merchants
feel empty.
This is their little--
>>REGINA: Marilyn Monroe might
be a good example of that,
then.
>>CHOKOISKY: They're
all good examples
whether they show it or not.
That's their little
secret, and they
will try to hide it with
more company, the newest
BMW, the newest
spouse, the newest
drug, the newest
whatever the case may be,
but those things only assuage
that feeling for awhile.
The antidote to any
merchant is charity,
giving, giving that which
you have in abundance.
It doesn't have to be money.
The other day a merchant
gave me a compliment.
She said, wow, you look
really good in those pants.
I was flying high the whole day.
The whole day I felt
great because merchants
have the ability to
make you feel good just
by saying something authentic.
She really meant it.
They can't lie.
They can't fake it, but even
a compliment from a merchant
can change someone's life.
So merchants have to give.
They have to give their time,
their energy, and, yes, money,
resources to help others.
Then what they get
in return feeds them
and fills that void the
way that nothing else can.
And Bill Clinton is a merchant,
and love him or hate him,
he balanced the budget
while he was the president.
We had a surplus.
That's the merchant's
strength-- is
to create money, and
wealth, and resources.
And now after his
presidency, he's
trying to do a lot of
charitable deeds both abroad
and in the US, as
well, to erase poverty.
This is a dharma of a
merchant, and again,
whether you're on the
right side or the left side
of the political
debate, you have
to recognize that this
person-- for all their faults,
whatever they may be-- is
following the merchant path.
>>REGINA: And in the case of
Bill Clinton, for example,
with the various
affairs and so forth,
that might have been
an attempt to fill
that empty space inside.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes, beautiful.
And there is a desire
to experience life,
to fill up on sensuality,
on things, on stuff,
on the good time,
on the burgers.
Now he's vegan.
There's a point in
the merchant's life--
the Scrooge myth is also very
central to the merchant life.
Scrooge was a miser
merchant type.
All his family was dead,
and so he didn't feel
like he should give to anyone.
For the merchant, the aha
moment comes when they
realize I have a wider family.
It's not just my blood family.
I have responsibility to my
neighbors, to my neighborhood,
to my city, to my country,
and ultimately to the world.
Then they become forces
of incredible change.
>>REGINA: So again,
so a person--
what the contributions
of the merchant
are and then what some
of the typology is?
>>CHOKOISKY: Oh, merchants
are round, even Muhammad Ali,
who was heavyweight champion.
He had a roundness about
his body, a fluidity.
He could move in a way that
the other opponents who
were more warriors--
>>REGINA: And he
had a round face.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
he had a round face
and a roundish kind of body,
and he flowed like water.
And people, they
couldn't touch him.
So there is a roundness.
Merchants don't like to
exercise unless there's
some kind of monetary incentive.
I believe Britney Spears
is also a merchant.
There are many, many merchants
in the entertainment business,
but if they need to get the six
pack abs for a certain movie,
they'll do it, but then
after that forget about it.
>>REGINA: That's when
you see them bloat back
up a 100 pounds.
>>CHOKOISKY: Exactly.
So merchants, there's
a certain way--
and I add detail some
strategies in the book
on how to motivate merchants.
For merchants who love to
have fun and essential,
you find ways.
Look, sex burns calories.
Instead of doing pushups
on the gym floor, try--
>>REGINA: So make
it sensual and fun.
>>CHOKOISKY: Make
>>REGINA: Fun is a central
element to the merchant.
>>CHOKOISKY: You have to
shake up their consciousness.
>>REGINA: Let's go to the,
would you say, educator next?
>>CHOKOISKY: Sure.
So the educator then is
ruled by the air element.
So we have two pairs of types
that really go well together.
The merchant and the
laborer need each other.
So if I'm a laborer, I want
to hang out with merchants.
If I'm a merchant, I want to
hang out with the laborers
to kind of keep me grounded.
>>REGINA: Keep you grounded, and
the other brings the laborer up
and gives them some
spark and fun in life.
>>CHOKOISKY: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So that's
a good combo.
>>CHOKOISKY: And the
second positive combo
is between educators
and warriors.
Educator is the air element.
Their job is to convey
wisdom to the world,
to bring good
counsel, diplomacy,
and to promote-- educators
are the idea people.
Even the founding of a nation
needs the written word,
the Constitution,
before cities are built,
before the population
comes to move in.
You need a certain set of laws.
The educator is very capable
of giving that to the world,
of giving new ideas, whether
through the realm of science,
through scientific
discovery, through religion,
or through politics,
doesn't matter.
As an educator, you bring
wisdom and ideas to the world.
That's your dharma.
That's it.
Teach the world.
>>REGINA: And now what are some
of the physical characteristics
of the educator?
>>CHOKOISKY: Educators are
the least robust physically
of all the types.
I'm an educator type, and
I look sort of burly, but--
>>REGINA: And you were
a fitness guru, trainer.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
I was in fitness.
Part of the reason I didn't
last that long in fitness--
I was in fitness
for about eight,
nine years-- is because the
body starts to break down,
and educators are
ultimately very
aware of the surrender that
happens because of the body.
The knees start hurting.
The back starts hurting, and you
have to say, well, forget it.
My dharma is to be an
ideas person rather than
a physical person, and you
have to learn to surrender
if you're an educator.
>>REGINA: Because the body
will just do its own thing.
>>CHOKOISKY: The
body insists-- yes.
Yes, and educators
have a lot of passion,
but the educator knows best
the concept of instant karma.
You step on a bug.
10 minutes later a bug
bites you, or you transgress
and you do something,
you say something
mean behind someone's back, and
you immediately go oh my god.
Why did I do that?
And you feel so guilty.
This is a quality
of the educator.
They feel instant karma,
instant repercussions
from any sort of
non-dharmic action.
They feel it first more
so than any other type.
So If you are experiencing
the quality of instant karma
in your life a lot, it's
likely that you're an educator.
>>REGINA: And what are the
physical characteristics?
>>CHOKOISKY: Physically,
educators are gentle.
If you're an educator
and you're at a bus stop,
you're the type of person
that people can just
come up to and start
telling you their problems.
Even though I'm 6'4" four,
220 pounds, but presumably--
I don't 100% how
other people see me,
but there is a welcoming
quality to educators,
a nonjudgmental quality
that you can come to me,
and I won't judge you and say
what a horrible person you are.
How dare you tell me this?
There's a sort of--
>>REGINA: People want to
tell educators their--
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, and you
can be at the bus stop--
>>REGINA: --secrets and--
>>CHOKOISKY: --at 2:00
AM, and someone just says,
I just left my boyfriend.
I'm not sure why, but it felt
like the right thing to do,
and I don't even know your name.
Why am I telling you this?
That's a quality educators have.
There's a non sort of
threatening quality.
>>REGINA: And as
you said earlier,
you might be able to
give some wise counsel,
but when it comes to actually
doing the work of helping this
person that's just
shared with you,
put their life back together--
>>CHOKOISKY: We
can't walk the walk.
>>REGINA: There you go.
>>CHOKOISKY: Our weak
point for educators-- one
of our weak points is we don't
do what we know we should do.
>>REGINA: So a lot of people
that sit across from me
here would probably be
educators, I would say,
and that is true.
A lot of people that
understand things conceptually,
can write beautiful books,
often don't walk the walk.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's tough.
So that's why
educators integrate.
They take on the best
qualities from the warrior.
That's why they need to
hang out with warriors,
because if a warrior
says, I'm doing
X, Y, Z, they're going to do it,
or they're going to die trying.
Robert Redford,
warrior type, defending
the rights of young filmmakers.
Angelina Jolie, warrior
type, helping kids
in war torn places,
removing mines, and so on.
They have a mission,
and for an educator,
it's very good to
see people like that,
because you can model
yourself after them
and actually get up in the
morning, go to the gym,
do what you said you
were going to do.
Behave how you're telling
other people to behave.
>>REGINA: Yes, I
understand that.
OK.
So now let's go to the warrior.
>>CHOKOISKY: So the warrior
is the fire element,
and air, educator, and
fire need each other.
To have fire, you need oxygen
to feed it, and for air to move,
it needs change of
temperature so it can rise.
For an educator to
really rise in the world,
they need that
heat, that impetus,
otherwise they grow stale.
Does that makes sense?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CHOKOISKY: And so just
like the fire element,
warriors are the
most dangerous type.
They can be extremely
harmful if they're misguided,
or they can be extremely useful.
It's a double edged sword.
Warriors are like a Ferrari
without a steering wheel.
Incredible engine, but
they need guidance.
They need to hang around with
educators to give them ideas,
to give them principles so they
can find their way in life.
Typically you know you're a
warrior if you hated school
when you were young.
Warriors prefer to be outside
running with the other boys
and girls than in
a stuffy classroom,
but come about age 35, 40 they
begin to appreciate wisdom.
And then they'll either
go back to school
or start watching that
National Geographic or Gaiam TV
and start learning.
They want to start learning
again because they missed out
on that when they were young.
That's a typical trajectory
for a warrior type.
And physically
warriors-- like I said,
they may have large hands,
but you have to look.
There's a certain
glitter in the eye.
strength of character.
I don't care if you're 5'4".
If you're a warrior, you
could probably take me out
because I'm not a
warrior, and you'll
find just the right
place to just go-- ow.
Stop.
OK, I give.
I give.
Because warriors know how
to find your weak point,
and they have that
sense of focus.
So rather than
describing specific--
>>REGINA: It's more
what you can see
in the eye and the attitude.
>>CHOKOISKY: There's a
certain luster to warriors.
>>REGINA: And a
determined nature.
>>CHOKOISKY: Determined nature.
Strong cheekbones.
>>REGINA: Strong cheekbones.
Now let's talk about outsiders.
>>CHOKOISKY: Outsiders.
Outsiders are the
most populous type.
Believe it or not, there are
more outsiders on the planet
now in our age than ever before.
However, there are very few
fully integrated outsiders.
Outsiders are the
bookend of society.
On the one hand, you
have people like Jesus,
who is the ultimate
outsider in the sense
that he walked into the temple.
He looked the priest in the eye,
and he said prostitutes and tax
collectors are going to heaven
before you, you scumbag-- was
basically what he was saying.
That's a huge rebel activity.
He spoke truth to power in a way
that many outsiders have done,
but to do it effectively
as an outsider
you have to cleanse
yourself first.
I was sitting with one
outsider, a friend of mine,
and she was talking
about the government
and how this is wrong
and that's wrong.
And she was driving
at the moment,
and just as she was
pulling into another lane,
she cut off this other driver
and started yelling at them.
Why are you buh buh buh buh.
Why did you do this?
And it struck me.
She sees everyone else's wrong,
but she doesn't see her own.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I see.
So the self purification.
Otherwise it's--
>>CHOKOISKY: Look at
yourself in the mirror
first before you try to seek
to create change in the world.
So that's the number one
lesson for outsiders,
and the outsider
chapter in my book
is the most detailed because
there's a step by step plan
outline for outsiders.
How to take
responsibility and how
to ultimately express
your-- give the world
you're unique expression.
Like we were talking
about fusion cuisine.
Well to do fusion cuisine
you have to have tried sushi.
You have to have tried
Mongolian barbecue.
Homemade potato
chips from Idaho.
You have to try
everything first.
So if you're an
outsider, chances
are early in life you
go away from your birth
culture and experience
Rastafarian, South Africa,
northern European.
You just take it
all in, and there
comes a point in your
life when that starts
blending and digesting
in your spiritual body,
and then something
new comes out.
That's the gift
from the outsider.
>>REGINA: And you say this
is a dominant type right now.
>>CHOKOISKY: It is a
very populous type.
I would say about 50%
of the population--
this is an estimate--
is likely outsiders.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>CHOKOISKY: But
what usually ends up
happening is, instead of doing
that is that search, that
walk about, so to speak,
outsiders will often
repress themselves
and force themselves
to blend in because outsiders
are the chameleons of society.
They can look just like
anybody else and hide.
>>REGINA: They can
blend anywhere.
I remember reading about
the characteristics.
They can blend high.
They can blend low.
They can travel in the
world and blend anywhere.
>>CHOKOISKY: Exactly.
And that ability to
blend is actually good
because it allows you
to go to, say, Africa
and just become part
of the culture there.
You're not sticking
out like a sore thumb,
but eventually you have
to learn who you are
and come back to
yourself, there's
a whole methodology to it,
how to do it step by step.
>>REGINA: Are there
physical characteristics
with the outsider?
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, the
outsider organ is the skin.
It's literally outside the
body, and in the same way--
so outsiders may decorate
their skin, tattoos,
or they may show more skin,
but because they're also
able to blend very
well, it's often
difficult to tell who
is an outsider or not.
Halle Berry is an outsider.
Denzel Washington
is an outsider.
David Beckham is an outsider
example I use in the book.
Very misunderstood when
he was a young player.
All of England hated him until
he scored this goal in a World
Cup match, and then
they all loved him,
and that's how the
outsider world works-- is
the society may hate
you at one moment,
but when you give your gift and
you're persistent in wanting
to give your gift
to that society,
they'll eventually embrace you.
>>REGINA: Now because we're
having so much fun time
is actually just flying
here, which is great,
but let's bring up
another nuance here.
We are living, as
you say in your book,
in the age of the merchant.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
>>REGINA: Now, how do
outsiders and everyone
fit in this age of the merchant?
It's interesting to have
such a dominance of outsiders
in that particular age.
>>CHOKOISKY: Living
in a merchant world
means whatever you do has
to make sense financially.
So let's say I'm a teacher.
I teach Sanskrit.
Merchant society doesn't
really put much value on that.
It actually doesn't put much
value on teachers in general
unless I'm teaching
people how to make money.
So teachers aren't well
recognized or remunerated
in a merchant society.
Outsiders-- the same thing.
Unless your invention,
your gift somehow helps
people make money, who cares?
Who cares if you know
how to meditate and hold
your breath for 20 minutes?
Unless we can turn it into
a TV show, and then great.
Let's make money from it.
So one interesting
way to use this
is to know which
country to live in.
The US is a merchant
country, which
is why the US is
very successful,
because the world is sort
of in this merchant period.
We're a global merchant
society, so the US is very good.
Canada is not.
Canada is an educator
country, and I'm not
sure what the politics
in Canada are like,
but I would wager that
their teachers are better
treated than ours, that their
education system is integrated
than ours.
>>REGINA: And it's interesting,
because when you're
talking about the US
being a merchant society,
probably the biggest pain
in most people's lives
is the notion that
everything they do
has to somehow be
attached to money.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
the bill, right?
>>REGINA: Yes, it all
has to be monetized.
When there are so
many people with so
many beautiful and diverse
talents that aren't regarded,
that we generally
aren't paid well for,
it's a very painful
society in that sense.
>>CHOKOISKY: The hallmark
of a merchant society--
remember that the
merchant's dharma is not
to fill up on stuff, and
more events, and adventures,
and things, but to
give to charity.
So I would argue that
having traveled a fair bit
around the world people love
America because we build wells,
because we give food.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's true too.
>>CHOKOISKY: Because
we export fun culture.
Even Coke, and Pepsi, and
blue jeans, and rock and roll
gives people hope in life.
They don't love us
because of our armies.
So just in the same way
that a type can integrated,
it can disintegrate.
So a merchant disintegrates
into the warrior.
I talk about this in the book.
It seems complicated because
we don't have graphs and stuff
to look at here.
>>REGINA: But the book
is available, yes.
>>CHOKOISKY: For the merchant,
the worst thing is to become
a warrior, because then
you become violent,
and when people instinctively
look at a violent merchant
and say that's ugly,
I don't like it--
>>REGINA: But that is what
we're expressing also in the US.
>>CHOKOISKY: In many ways, yeah.
So in a certain way, we should
be giving more to charity.
So things that
Microsoft, Bill Gates,
and Bill Clinton, and
these types of people,
and Oprah Winfrey are doing to
create charitable organizations
around the world is
representing us well.
The other things we're
doing with our military
are not necessarily from
a dharmic standpoint.
I'm not speaking in terms of
politics or even economics.
From a dharma level, we
as a merchant country
need to be of
service, of charity.
Feed the poor.
Feed the hungry.
So what if it takes money.
So what?
Give the money.
The end result will be a
positive net outcome for us.
>>REGINA: Yes, that
makes total sense.
Now what about-- you were
talking about a little bit.
What about in relationships?
If you're giving
a little tutorial,
say someone is just starting
up a new relationship
with someone.
What kind of matches would
you more or less avoid
on a really personal,
intimate level versus which
ones would flourish best?
>>CHOKOISKY: Well, a merchant
and warrior as we were just
saying are water and fire.
So we have to understand what
each one does to the other.
It doesn't mean that kind
of relationship won't work.
It means it can work,
but fundamentally you
speak different languages.
So you have to be clear in
your communication number one.
Honey, when I said I need
you to go to the store
and pick this up, I wasn't
trying to be dictatorial.
This is the warrior speaking.
I was trying to
say that I really
want to cook you this
beautiful dinner,
but I need these ingredients.
>>REGINA: So you
have to massage it
a lot more in that situation.
We have water and
fire, for example.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
Correct.
And the same thing when
you have air and earth.
If you have a nice mountain,
wind erodes that mountain,
and if I'm-- I'm an educator,
and I can be a little too
critical.
I can be, well, technically
you shouldn't have said that.
No, it's I before E except after
C if they're spelling sucks.
We're like that.
We're educators, so we're
constantly correcting people,
and that will wear
down a laborer.
And so what you have
to understand-- how you
come across to the other type.
And once you
understand their type
and they understand
where you're coming from,
that opens a channel
of communication.
So that's the very
first basic step--
is to understand the other,
your partner, and how
they see the world.
And when you can sort of have
that as a reference point,
then you can couch your
words more appropriately.
>>REGINA: And so
the natural ones
are the ones we already
talked about before.
You have the laborer
and the merchant.
>>CHOKOISKY: They work well.
They help each other.
>>REGINA: And the
educator and the warrior.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's
not always easy.
Don't get me wrong.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah, but
they can work together.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
>>REGINA: What
about the outsider?
>>CHOKOISKY: What
about the outside?
Oh, poor little outsider.
>>REGINA: What happens to them?
>>CHOKOISKY: Outsiders
have a unique gift
in that they can play any
of the other four types.
So if you're an outsider, your
number one mantra is freedom.
For an outsider, I can
give you a million dollars
and a golden cage and say, but
you have to live in this cage.
That's a recipe for disaster,
because sooner or later they're
going to rebel.
So the outsider needs freedom
first of all in anything,
even in a relationship,
but as an outsider,
you can play any of
the other four types.
David Beckham, an outsider
playing a warrior.
He's an athlete.
Halle Berry, an outsider
playing a merchant.
She's an actress.
Or some outsiders choose
not to play any role.
I'll just be an outsider.
David Blaine, outsider.
I am who I am.
Salvador Dali.
I am an outsider.
So outsiders can take
on any of the roles.
If you're an outsider
playing an educator,
then pretty much follow
the rules of the educator--
means if you're relating
to a laborer it will
be a little more difficult,
because you're functioning
basically as an educator.
It's like a house cat.
A house cat has the
lion inside her,
but she's functioning as
your pet for now-- for now.
>>REGINA: For now.
>>CHOKOISKY: Until
she decides to take--
>>REGINA: And then
she'll turn on you.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes, at some point.
At some point, she will come
back and honor her lion nature.
>>REGINA: Inner major feline.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes.
In the same way, every
outsider has that nature,
but they can take on the
roles of the other types.
So to know which type you're
playing the test helps.
>>REGINA: What about
over a lifetime?
Can it change?
For example, you're
looking at a birth chart
and it indicates one
thing, but the self test
indicates something different.
>>CHOKOISKY: It can, yeah.
>>REGINA: And so how
do we reconcile this?
>>CHOKOISKY: That's why I tell
people go with the self test
primarily.
Sometimes--
>>REGINA: Because that's
where you are now anyway.
>>CHOKOISKY: Exactly,
and that's what matters.
>>REGINA: Because this
is mutable, is it not?
>>CHOKOISKY: It's
somewhat mutable.
You are who you are from birth.
In my mind, this
is genetic, even
though scientists and
geneticists haven't
looked for the dharma type.
I think it is there.
What undergoes
change, however, is
what you do with those genes.
What you're exposed to over
your lifetime will mold that,
and that's what I call the life
cycle, the planetary period.
You're in an outsider period.
So instead of talking
about crunching numbers
with some major
corporation about X, Y, Z,
you're doing something that's
a little bit out of the box
and helping people
understand consciousness,
something that's not tangible.
Outer space, inner
space, things that
are outside of the
normal conversation.
>>REGINA: And I would
say interestingly 2002
is when that period
started, and it
was right after
that that my husband
at the time, Scott Meredith,
and I started Conscious Media
Network.
The seeds of that were
planted around 2003, 2004
to give birth to that genre
of programming at that time.
>>CHOKOISKY: Fascinating.
And you will continue to
be in that area until 2021
if I recall.
>>REGINA: So even though
what you have in your birth
chart on a computer--
that's not maybe
how you're acting and feeling.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's a blueprint.
>>REGINA: It's a blueprint,
but your way of expressing it
may have shifted
because of that cycle
you're in as we
spoke about earlier.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes, correct.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: This is
so interesting,
and one thing we
didn't get to is
what helps each one
evolve and devolve.
I think it's best that
people just read the book.
>>CHOKOISKY: Or we can talk
about it for another hour.
>>REGINA: Which we don't have
time to do, but I'd love to.
Simon, I want to thank you.
It's very helpful,
and as I said earlier,
I think it's something
that could be extremely
useful for families,
for co-workers,
for relationships, pretty
much any kind of interaction
with other people.
It's really nice to be
somewhat educated as to who's
sitting in front of you.
>>CHOKOISKY: Even the
type of yoga that you do.
There are certain
asanas as we were
discussing earlier that work
for educators much better
than others.
>>REGINA: And also dietary
plans, and eating plans,
and such that work
better for each type.
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
>>REGINA: And again, we can't
get into all of it right now,
but people can take
a look at the book.
>>CHOKOISKY: Awesome.
>>REGINA: Thanks so much.
>>CHOKOISKY: Thank you.
Thank you so much.
>>REGINA: I really enjoyed it.
"The Five Dharma Types"
is a wonderful self help
book with tests to
discover your type.
You can find it at major
book selling sites.
To connect with Simon you
can go to spirittype.com
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here in Gaiam TV.